=pod

=head1 NAME

notifyquit.pl

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A script intended to alert people to the fact that their conversation partners
have quit or left the channel, especially useful in high-traffic channels, or
where you have C<JOINS PARTS QUITS> ignored.

=head1 INSTALLATION

This script requires that you have first installed and loaded F<uberprompt.pl>

Uberprompt can be downloaded from:

L<https://github.com/shabble/irssi-scripts/raw/master/prompt_info/uberprompt.pl>

and follow the instructions at the top of that file or its README for installation.

If uberprompt.pl is available, but not loaded, this script will make one
attempt to load it before giving up.  This eliminates the need to precisely
arrange the startup order of your scripts.

Copy into your F<~/.irssi/scripts/> directory and load with
C</SCRIPT LOAD F<notifyquit.pl>>.

=head1 SETUP

This script provides a single setting:

C</SET notifyquit_exceptions>, which defaults to "C</^https?/ /^ftp/>"

The setting is a space-separated list of regular expressions in the format
C</EXPR/>. If the extracted nickname matches any of these patterns, it isa
assumed to be a false-positive match, and is sent to the channel with no
further confirmation.

=head1 USAGE

When responding to users in a channel in the format C<$theirnick: some message>
(where the C<:> is not necessarily a colon, but the value of your
C<completion_char> setting), this script will check that the nickname still
exists in the channel, and will prompt you for confirmation if they have
since left.

It is intended for use for people who ignore C<JOINS PARTS QUITS>, etc, and
try to respond to impatient people, or those with a bad connection.

To send the message once prompted, either hit C<enter>, or C<y>.  Pressing C<n>
will abort sending, but leave the message in your input buffer just in case
you want to keep it.

=head1 AUTHORS

Original Copyright E<copy> 2011 Jari Matilainen C<E<lt>vague!#irssi@freenodeE<gt>>

Some extra bits
Copyright E<copy> 2011 Tom Feist C<E<lt>shabble+irssi@metavore.orgE<gt>>

=head1 LICENCE

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

=head1 BUGS

I<None known.>

Please report any problems to L<https://github.com/shabble/irssi-scripts/issues/new>
or moan about it in C<#irssi@Freenode>.

=head1 TODO

=over 4

=item * Keep a watchlist of nicks in the channel, and only act to confirm if
they quit shortly before/during you typing a response.

keep track of the most recent departures, and upon sending, see if one of them
is your target. If so, prompt for confirmation.

So, add them on quit/kick/part, and remove them after a tiemout.

=back



=cut

