__END__

=head1 NAME

Irssi::UI::Window

=head1 FIELDS

C<UI::Window-E<gt>{}>

  refnum - Reference number
  name - Name

  width - Width
  height - Height

  history_name - Name of named historylist for this window

  active - Active window item
  active_server - Active server

  servertag - active_server must be either undef or have this same tag
              (unless there's items in this window). This is used by
	      /WINDOW SERVER -sticky
  level - Current window level

  sticky_refnum - 1 if reference number is sticky

  data_level - Current data level
  hilight_color - Current activity hilight color

  last_timestamp - Last time timestamp was written in window
  last_line - Last time text was written in window

  theme_name - Active theme in window, undef = default

C<UI::TextDest-E<gt>{}>

  window - Window where the text will be written
  server - Target server
  target - Target channel/query/etc name
  level - Text level

  hilight_priority - Priority for the hilighted text
  hilight_color - Color for the hilighted text


=head1 METHODS

=head2 C<command $cmd>

=head2 C<print $str, [$level]>

=head2 C<items>

Return a list of items in window.


=head2 C<window_create $automatic>

=head2 C<destroy>

Destroy the window.

Irssi::Window
Windowitem::window()
  Returns parent window for window item.

=head2 C<window_find_name $name>

Find window with name.L<Irssi::UI::Window>

=head2 C<window_find_refnum $refnum>

Find window with reference number.

Window
window_find_level(level)

Server::window_find_level(level)
  Find window with level.

Window
window_find_closest(name, level)

Server::window_find_closest(name, level)
  Find window that matches best to given arguments. `name' can be either
  window name or name of one of the window items.

Window
window_find_item(name)

Server::window_find_item(name)
  Find window which contains window item with specified name/server.


=head2 C<item_add $item, $automatic>

Add specified windowitem

=head2 C<item_remove $item>

remove specified windowitem

=head2 C<item_destroy $item>

destroy specified windowitem

=head2 C<set_active>

Set window active.

=head2 C<change_server $server>

=head2 C<set_refnum $refnum>

=head2 C<set_name $name>

=head2 C<set_history $name>

=head2 C<set_level $level>

Change server/refnum/name/history/level in window.

=head2 C<item_prev>

=head2 C<item_next>

Change to previous/next window item.


=head2 C<get_active_name>

Return active item's name, or if none is active, window's name

=head2 C<item_find $server, $name>

Find window item that matches best to given arguments.

=head1 Full list of functions

    Irssi::UI::Window::activity
    Irssi::UI::Window::change_server
    Irssi::UI::Window::command
    Irssi::UI::Window::destroy
    Irssi::UI::Window::format_get_text
    Irssi::UI::Window::get_active_name
    Irssi::UI::Window::get_history_lines
    Irssi::UI::Window::gui_printtext_after
    Irssi::UI::Window::item_add
    Irssi::UI::Window::item_destroy
    Irssi::UI::Window::item_find
    Irssi::UI::Window::item_next
    Irssi::UI::Window::item_prev
    Irssi::UI::Window::item_remove
    Irssi::UI::Window::items
    Irssi::UI::Window::last_line_insert
    Irssi::UI::Window::print
    Irssi::UI::Window::print_after
    Irssi::UI::Window::printformat
    Irssi::UI::Window::set_active
    Irssi::UI::Window::set_history
    Irssi::UI::Window::set_level
    Irssi::UI::Window::set_name
    Irssi::UI::Window::set_refnum
    Irssi::UI::Window::view

